---
title: "Schedule"
bg: '#4259f4'
color: white
fa-icon: pencil-square-o
---

## Detailed Schedule
All reading assignments listed below should be completed by the date under which they're listed. So, for example, you should come to class on Tuesday, 9/4, having read all of Plautus' *Casina*.

The parenthesis after each reading assignment is the source in which you can find the reading. "Hackett" means entry 1 in the texts section above (Francese and Smith, eds., *Ancient Rome: An Anthology of Sources*, Hackett 2014). The other four texts will be referenced by the author's last name. Some reading assignments will be found online -- a link will be provided.

I highly recommend that you complete the reading for both class meetings during the weekend prior; at the very least, make some decent headway into any given Thursday assignment before the interval between Tuesday and Thursday meetings. Some of the Thursday readings are long; you may not finish reading and internalizing them if you try to cram the reading into the space of a day.

Slides are available through links provided after each lecture title. Note that you need a Holy Cross log-in to view each slideset.

### Week 1
**R 8/30** - Introduction: Women and Men in Roman Literature and Society. Slides [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-iLRptN0jNN3JL_-Ou8oXbmyIZwU2kuuLANFDeoc_cY/edit?usp=sharing).    

### Week 2
**T 9/4** - Roman Drama and the Origins of Roman Literature.  
Plautus, *Casina* (Christenson)  

**R 9/6** - Cicero: Orator, Letter-Writer, Philosopher, *Novus Homo*  
Cicero, *pro Archia* (Hackett)  
Cicero, selected letters (5-8, 10, 12-14, 16, 18) (Hackett)  

### Week 3
**T 9/11** - Elegiac and Nugatory Poetry 1: *novum libellum* and a Woman’s Perspective  
Catullus (all in Hackett)  
Sulpicia (all in Hackett)
Quiz #1  

**R 9/13** - Elegiac and Nugatory Poetry 2: Odes to Rome and Epigrams in the Empire  
Horace (*Odes* in Hackett)  
Martial (all in Hackett)  

### Week 4
**T 9/18** - Livy 1: The Aims of Livian Historiography and the Beginnings of Rome  
Livy, preface, I.1-11, 13, 16 (Hackett)  
Quiz #2  
*Begin reading the* Aeneid *if you haven't already begun to do so.*  

**R 9/20** - Livy 2: From Numa to the End of the Monarchy  
Livy, I.19, 21, 35, 39-41, 46-49, 56-60 (Hackett)  

### Week 5
**T 9/25** - Augustus: *pater patriae*  
Augustus, *Res Gestae* (Hackett)  
Quiz #3  

**R 9/27** - *Aeneid* Part 1: From Troy to Carthage  
Vergil, *Aeneid* 1-3 (Mandelbaum)  

### Week 6
**T 10/2** - *Aeneid* Part 2: Dido’s Tragedy and the Future Rome  
Vergil, *Aeneid* 4-6 (Mandelbaum)  
Quiz #4  

**R 10/4** - *Aeneid* Part 3: A Roman *Iliad*  
Vergil, *Aeneid* 7-12 (Mandelbaum)  

### FALL BREAK: 10/6 - 10/14

### Week 7
**T 10/16** - Non-Epic Hexameter: Catullan Epyllion and Vergilian Bucolics  
Catullus 64 (click [here](https://www.poetryintranslation.com/PITBR/Latin/Catullus.php#anchor_Toc531846789))  
Vergil Eclogues 1 and 4 (Hackett)  

**R 10/18** - Non-Epic Hexameter: Horatian and Juvenalian Satire  
Horace *Sermones* 1.6, 1.9 (Hackett)  
Juvenal *Satires* 1 (Hackett)  
Quiz #5  

### Week 8
**T 10/23** - Ovid Part 1: *ab origine mundi*  
Ovid, *Metamorphoses* 1-5 (Mandelbaum)  

**R 10/25** - Ovid Part 2: From Divine Punishment to Human Horrors  
Ovid, *Metamorphoses* 6-10 (Mandelbaum)  
Quiz #6  

### Week 9
**T 10/30** - Ovid Part 3: *ad mea tempora*
Ovid, *Metamorphoses* 11-15 (Mandelbaum)

**R 11/1** - Ovid Part 4: From Amatory to Exilic Elegy  
Ovid, *Ars Amatoria* 1.1-176, 229-398, 437-642; *Fasti* 4.721-862; *Tristia* 4.10 (Hackett)  
Quiz #7  

### Week 10
**T 11/6** -  Roman Philosophy: Epicureanism, Stoicism, Cynicism  
Lucretius *de Rerum Natura* (all in Hackett)  
Seneca, *Epistulae Morales* (all in Hackett)

**R 11/8** - Seneca and (the Loss of) Roman Tragedy  
Seneca, *Thyestes* (Smith)
Quiz #8  

### Week 11
**T 11/13** - Imperial Historiography: Tacitus and How to Survive a Tyrant
Guest lecturer: Prof. Tim Joseph  
Tacitus, *Agricola*: link to Loeb Classical Library [here](https://www-loebclassics-com.ezproxy.holycross.edu/view/tacitus-agricola/1914/pb_LCL035.27.xml?rskey=YfTA94&result=1).

**R 11/15** - Imperial Epistolography: Pliny the Younger
Pliny, *Letters*  2 3 5 8 12 13 14 15 16 20 33 34
Quiz #9  

### Week 12
**T 11/20** - The Epigraphic Habit: Graffiti and Epitaphs
*Inscriptions* # 7

### THANKSGIVING BREAK: 11/21 - 11/25

### Week 13
**T 11/27** - Apuleius 1: Lucius, the Ass
Apuleius, *The Golden Ass* 1-6

**R 11/29** - Apuleius 2: A Serious Conversion or Satiric Punchline?
Apuleius, *The Golden Ass* 7-11
Quiz #10  

### Week 14
**T 12/4** - Perpetua: A Christian Martyr
Perpetua, *The Passion of Perpetua and Felicitas* (Hackett)

**R 12/6** - In Conclusion and Next Steps

Study period: Sa 12/8 - M 12/10
Exam period: T 12/11 - Sa 12/15
